---
title: AlertNode
note: Auto generated by tickdoc
---

An [AlertNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/alert_node.html) can trigger an alert of varying severity levels 
based on the data it receives. 

Example: 


```javascript
   stream
        .alert()
            .info(lambda: "value" > 10)
            .warn(lambda: "value" > 20)
            .crit(lambda: "value" > 30)
            .post("http://example.com/api/alert")
```


It is assumed that each successive level filters a subset 
of the previous level. As a result the filter will only be applied if 
a data point passed the previous level. 
In the above example if value = 15 then the INFO and 
WARNING expressions would be evaluated but not the 
CRITICAL expression. 

Each expression maintains its own state. 


Properties
----------

Property methods modify state on the calling node. They do not add another node to the pipeline and always return a reference to the calling node.

### Crit

Filter expression for the CRITICAL alert level. 
An empty value indicates the level is invalid and is skipped. 


```javascript
node.crit(value tick.Node)
```


### Email

Email the alert data. 


```javascript
node.email(from string, subject string, to ...string)
```


### Exec

Execute a command whenever an alert is trigger and pass the alert data over STDIN. 


```javascript
node.exec(executable string, args ...string)
```


### Flapping

Perform flap detection on the alerts. 
The method used is similar method to Nagios: 
https://assets.nagios.com/downloads/nagioscore/docs/nagioscore/3/en/flapping.html 

Each different alerting level is considered a different state. 


```javascript
node.flapping(low float64, high float64)
```


### History

Number of previous states to remember when computing flapping levels. 


```javascript
node.history(value int)
```


### Info

Filter expression for the INFO alert level. 
An empty value indicates the level is invalid and is skipped. 


```javascript
node.info(value tick.Node)
```


### Log

Log alert data to file 


```javascript
node.log(value string)
```


### Post

Post the alert data to the specified URL. 


```javascript
node.post(value string)
```


### Warn

Filter expression for the WARNING alert level. 
An empty value indicates the level is invalid and is skipped. 


```javascript
node.warn(value tick.Node)
```

