---
title: StreamNode
note: Auto generated by tickdoc
---

A [StreamNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/stream_node.html) represents the source of data being 
streamed to Kapacitor via any of its inputs. 
The stream node allows you to select which portion of the stream 
you want to process. 
The `stream` variable in stream tasks is an instance of 
a [StreamNode.](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/stream_node.html) 

Example: 


```javascript
    stream
        .from('"mydb"."myrp"."mymeasurement"')
           .where(lambda: "host" =~ /logger\d+/)
        .window()
        ...
```

The above example selects only data points from the database `mydb` 
and retention policy `myrp` and measurement `mymeasurement` where 
the tag `host` matches the regex `logger\d+` 


Properties
----------

Property methods modify state on the calling node. They do not add another node to the pipeline and always return a reference to the calling node.

### Where

Filter the current stream using the given expression. 
This expression is a Kapacitor expression. Kapacitor 
expressions are a superset of InfluxQL WHERE expressions. 
See the `Expression` docs for more information. 

If empty then all data points are considered to match. 


```javascript
node.where(expression tick.Node)
```


Chaining Methods
----------------

Chaining methods create a new node in the pipeline as a child of the calling node. They do not modify the calling node.

### Alert

Create an alert node, which can trigger alerts. 


```javascript
node.alert()
```

Returns: [AlertNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/alert_node.html)


### Eval

Create an eval node that will evaluate the given transformation function to each data point. 
See the built-in function `expr` in order to write in-line custom transformation functions. 


```javascript
node.eval(transform tick.Node)
```

Returns: [EvalNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/eval_node.html)


### From

Which database, retention policy and measurement to select. 
This is equivalent to the FROM statement in an InfluxQL 
query. As such shortened selectors can be supplied 
(i.e. &#34;mymeasurement&#34; is valid and selects all data points 
from the measurement &#34;mymeasurement&#34; independent 
of database or retention policy). 

Creates a new stream node that can be further 
filtered using the Where property. 
From can be called multiple times to create multiple 
independent forks of the data stream. 

Example: 


```javascript
    var cpu = stream.from('cpu')
    var load = stream.from('load')
    // Join cpu and load streams and do further processing
    cpu.join(load)
            .as('cpu', 'load')
        ...
```



```javascript
node.from(from string)
```

Returns: [StreamNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/stream_node.html)


### GroupBy

Group the data by a set of tags. 

Can pass literal * to group by all dimensions. 
Example: 


```javascript
    .groupBy(*)
```



```javascript
node.groupBy(tag ...interface{})
```

Returns: [GroupByNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/group_by_node.html)


### HttpOut

Create an http output node that caches the most recent data it has received. 
The cached data is available at the given endpoint. 
The endpoint is the relative path from the API endpoint of the running task. 
For example if the task endpoint is at &#34;/api/v1/task/&lt;task_name&gt;&#34; and endpoint is 
&#34;top10&#34;, then the data can be requested from &#34;/api/v1/task/&lt;task_name&gt;/top10&#34;. 


```javascript
node.httpOut(endpoint string)
```

Returns: [HTTPOutNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/http_out_node.html)


### InfluxDBOut

Create an influxdb output node that will store the incoming data into InfluxDB. 


```javascript
node.influxDBOut()
```

Returns: [InfluxDBOutNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/influx_d_b_out_node.html)


### Join

Join this node with another node. The data is joined on time. 


```javascript
node.join(other Node)
```

Returns: [JoinNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/join_node.html)


### Map

Perform just the map step of a map-reduce operation. 
A map step must always be followed by a reduce step. 
See Apply for performing simple transformations. 
See MapReduce for performing map-reduce in one command. 

NOTE: Map can only be applied to batch edges. 


```javascript
node.map(f interface{})
```

Returns: [MapNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/map_node.html)


### MapReduce

Perform a map-reduce operation on the data. 
The built-in functions under `influxql` provide the 
selection,aggregation, and transformation functions 
from the InfluxQL language. 

NOTE: MapReduce can only be applied to batch edges. 


```javascript
node.mapReduce(mr MapReduceInfo)
```

Returns: [ReduceNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/reduce_node.html)


### Reduce

Perform just the reduce step of a map-reduce operation. 

NOTE: Reduce can only be applied to map edges. 


```javascript
node.reduce(f interface{})
```

Returns: [ReduceNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/reduce_node.html)


### Union

Perform the union of this node and all other given nodes. 


```javascript
node.union(node ...Node)
```

Returns: [UnionNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/union_node.html)


### Window

Create a new node that windows the stream by time. 

NOTE: Window can only be applied to stream edges. 


```javascript
node.window()
```

Returns: [WindowNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/window_node.html)

